what is good you to welcome back to
another video today I welcome you guys
back to fashion Fridays now since this
is my very first sewing tutorial please
do bear with me I'm still trying to
figure out how I want to organize this
whole video so I wanted to do probably
the easiest tutorial ever and that is
turning your very old oversized jeans
into summer shorts unfortunately my gym
VMC baggy days are over I know a lot of
you guys still have some leftovers of
those baggy day jeans and I know you
those are just probably just sitting in
a closet somewhere and if you guys don't
want to put that to waste the best way
of doing it is turning them into jeans
why not so the jeans that we will be
working on with today aren't my high
school true religion jeans now I know
how expensive this brand is but before
you guys freak out let's have a look on
how these look on me today as you guys
can see that these jeans are already
oversized super baggy and then the
length is so damn long that it covers my
whole entire feet now there's really no
point of me wear these anymore so why
not put these to use and turn them into
summer shorts all right so our project
is to turn these old baggy jeans into
these shorts now these shorts are very
popular right now it has the whole food
and cuff going on so that is definitely
our peg for this project so what do I
need to do this project of course you
need your sewing machine and today I
will be using my singer you also need a
pair of fabric scissors that I did get
from Ikea for the low low you also need
fabric chalk which I like to call the
gentleman's charm
don't forget your measuring tape to get
the exact length that you want for your
shorts you will also need a bunch of
pins to pin down the folded cuff and
lastly you need any oversized ruler all
right so the first step is measure from
your waist down to your knee
this will dictate the length of your
shorts what I like to do is I like to
add an inch or two allowance for the
folded cuff now what you want to do is
you want to take your pants and flip
them inside out it's always good to turn
your jeans inside out for cutting and
you
also want to mark these and when you
mark them you don't want them to show on
the outer part the next step is finding
your cutting point you can find this by
using your waist to knee measurements
once you find your cutting point go
ahead and mark it with your tailors
chalk using your obnoxiously large ruler
go ahead and mark your cutting point you
may now begin cutting your jeans look at
the swiftness all on point call me
Edward I'm nice with the scissors man
and disclaimer please don't cut yourself
now that you have cut both sides of the
jeans you want to turn it back to its
normal side the next step is creating
your folded cuff you want to make this
as neat as possible because it will make
your pinning life a lot easier
pinning is probably the most annoying
part of the whole entire process you
need a lot of patience you it's not an
overnight thing you definitely need to
get used to it you will probably pin
your ownself for the first time but it
is very vital because you want to be as
precise as possible
once you have finished pinning both
sides of the cuff you may go ahead and
bring it to the sewing machine what you
want to do is you want to start with a
straight stitch do not forget to back
stitch and end with a back stitch as
well because that is what will keep your
stitches together I used a black thread
specifically to show you guys these
stitches and once you are done do not
forget to enjoy and admire your work
you
and there you have it I hope you guys
enjoy this video I do apologize if it is
kind of confusing or disorganized this
is my very first sewing tutorial video
so do bear with me but if you guys
aren't planning on making this in the
future if you do so please take a photo
tag me in it show me what you guys made
if you did enjoy this segment of fashion
Friday's the best way of letting me know
is hitting that thumbs up button down
below let me know down in the comments
below as well what you guys want me to
show you guys how to make in the future
do stay tuned I will be having more of
these I'll try to be more consistent if
you guys want to keep chopping it up
with me you guys can always find me on
Twitter Instagram and snapchat all under
around food fly guy until next time I'll
catch you guys on the next video good
see I'm a Filipino giggle grew up with
the Hispanics hung around the black
started talking with the accent my shirt
got bigger my pants